Welcome. We will be looking at
conditional
probabilities to help
us understand Bayes rule.
In other words, if I tell you,
you can guess what the
weather is like given
that we are in California
and it is winter,
then you'll have a much
better guess than if
I just asked you to guess
what the weather is like.
In order to derive Bayes rule,
let's first take a look at the
conditional probabilities.
Now think about what happens if,
instead of the entire corpus,
you only consider tweets
that contain the word happy.
This is the same as saying,
given that a tweet contains
the word happy with that,
you would be considering
only the tweets inside
the blue circle,
where many of the positive
tweets are now excluded.
In this case, the probability
that a tweet is positive,
given that it contains
the word happy,
simply becomes the number
of tweets that are
positive and also
contain the word happy.
We divide that by the number
that contain the word happy.
As you can see by
this calculation,
your tweet has a 75
percent likelihood
of being positive if it
contains the word happy.
You could make the same
case for positive tweets.
The purple area denotes
the probability that
a positive tweet
contains the word happy.
In this case, the probability is
3 over 13, which is 0.231.
With all of this discussion of
the probability of missing
certain conditions,
we are talking about
conditional probabilities.
Conditional probabilities
could be interpreted as
the probability of an outcome B
knowing that event
A already happened,
or given that I'm looking
at an element from set A,
the probability that it's
also belongs to set B.
Here's another way
of looking at this
with a Venn diagram
you saw before.
Using the previous example,
the probability of a
tweet being positive,
given that it has
the word happy,
is equal to the probability of
the intersection between
the tweets that are
positive and the tweets that
have the word happy divided by
the probability of a tweet given
from the corpus having
the word happy.
Let's take a closer look at
the equation from
the previous slide.
You could write a
similar equation by
simply swapping the position
of the two conditions.
Now, you have the
conditional probability
of a tweet containing
the word happy,
given that it is
a positive tweet.
Armed with both of
these equations,
you're now ready to
derive Bayes rule.
To combine these equations,
note that the intersection
represents the same quantity,
no matter which
way it's written.
Knowing that, you can remove
it from the equation,
with a little algebraic
manipulation,
you are able to arrive
at this equation.
This is now an expression
of Bayes rule in
the context of the previous
sentiment analysis problem.
More generally, Bayes
rule states that
the probability of
x given y is equal
to the probability
of y given x times
the ratio of the probability of
x over the probability of y.
That's it. You just arrived at
the basic formulation of
Bayes rule, nicely done.
To wrap up, you just
derive Bayes rule
from expressions of
conditional probability.
Throughout the rest
of this course,
you'll be using Bayes rule for
various applications in NLP.
The main takeaway
for now is that,
Bayes rule is based on
the mathematical formulation
of conditional probabilities.
That's with Bayes rule,
you can calculate
the probability of
x given y if you already know
the probability of y given x
and the ratio of the
probabilities of x and y.
That's great work.
I'll see you later.
Congratulations.
You now have a good
understanding of Bayes rule.
In the next video,
you'll see how you
can start applying
Bayes rule to a model
known as Naive Bayes.
This will allow you
to start building
your sentiment
analysis classifier
using just probabilities.